All right, so we ran all the tests and almost everything worked, except for this can find all method
and we're getting this issue here.
Column not found for alias parent I.D..
All right, so let's jump back over here, and that sounds super familiar to one of the other issues
that we've seen a little bit ago.
All right, I'm clicking on this line 151 people repository because it's the first line that I can do
something about in our stack trace, right?
And so that's just where we're throwing that exception to.
That's not telling me much.
So now I'm going to go to the previous line right before that people repository here.
OK, so here we are.
Column not found for alias parent underscore I.D..
OK, so now I think I'm going to run just this test in debug mode, so I'm going to double click on
it, come up here to the top of it and run and debug.
OK, so let's see what we've got here.
First off, I'm curious what is this alias prefix set to?
So it is parent underscore I.D. And then I think I'm going to just step in to this get value by Alias,
so similar to what we did before.
So I'm going to step in.
OK?
And then I'm going to step over this column count business here.
And if I hover over this, the column count is five currently, OK?
And so now we're setting up our loop and we are looking for parent underscore I.D..
Now I do still have a watch variable set up for restart.
That metadata don't get column label, which is right here now.
Currently, it's not reporting anything because we're not inside of this loop yet.
OK.
So as soon as I step over and into this loop now I'm getting a value of I.D..
Ah, OK.
And so instantly I can see what the issue is now.
The issue here is that the label that we are getting for column one is not parent underscore ID, it
is simply ID.
OK.
And that makes sense because we did not change the SQL for our find all query to use aliases, right?
It's just doing it the original way.
So let's see what we need to do here.
Do we need to update the sequel for our find all?
Or can we fix the code so that it would work either way?
Let's just see.
So I'm going to actually step backward in our stack here to see how we got here in the first place.
All right.
So let's see.
There's that call, and I'm stepping back again to the extract entity from results set, and I think
I want to step back even further, maybe all the way back to the credit repository itself, because
I want to see what method is, is call it.
So it is the find all method that we are in, and then I'm going to jump back in to this extract entity
from results set.
OK.
And I think I see it right here.
So yes, we have hardcoded the fact that the parents should always be depended with this prefix of the
word parent underscore and our Find All sequel, which is up here.
Find All Sequel is not expecting that, right?
So there's at least a couple of ways we could fix this.
The most straightforward way, I think, would be to just revise the sequel to alias all of these columns
with the word parent in front of them.
That would be one way of doing it.
The other way would be to determine if there is a way of knowing whether or not we need to use this
prefix.
I'm kind of inclined, though, to just revise our sequel to go ahead and add in the aliases because
we might someday want find all to be capable of retrieving the parents with their children.
And in that case, we're going to need this prefix anyway.
So I think that would be probably the way to go here is just to revise the sequel now to add in the
aliases.
So I'm going to stop this test, and one way I can do that is by coming down here to this little to
greater than symbols, which immediately turns into this pop up thing here and now I can hit that stop
button right there.
All right, so I just killed that test because I got my answer, I think I understand why that test
failed.
OK, so what I'm going to do now is convert this find all sequel into a tax block first.
Like so and then I'm just going to reformat it a little bit, and in fact, I'm wondering if I can pretty
much just copy everything that I've got up here.
So let's see, select parent I.D. first name, last name, date of birth, salary, and I'm actually
missing a few things in an email.
I don't even think we're grabbing the email down here.
No, we're not.
OK, so yeah, let's see if we can just grab.
All of that, and maybe it will go down to a new line, though, and maybe it will put the from clause
on its own line as well.
And then just paste right over that.
Well, that's a lot of stuff, isn't it, from people?
Now we're going to have to do a few changes here as well because we'll need an alias here from people
as.
Parent and I think that's what we have up here, yes, from people as parent and then that first 100
rows, and I think that might be all we need.
All right.
So let's just try running this one test.
So I'm double clicking on can find all and then I'm going to come up here and just run that one test.
All right.
So still failing column not found for alias child I.D..
OK, so let's jump in to the Stack Trace here in a minute.
So I just started at this at the top of the stack trace, but that's a little too deep.
So I'm going to back off by one, and I think I'm going to back off again to the extract entity method
here.
So here we are trying to get a child now in this case.
Our school doesn't even try to join to grab the children, and I'm going to leave that school the way
that it is for now, because I think ideally this should work either way.
So what we're going to do now is modify our code to be a little more flexible.
OK.
So we're jumping into this extract person method and we're looking for a child.
So I'm going to jump in there myself, and then we're doing get value by alias and we're looking for
that child ID.
And currently, what we do is we're saying if we can't find what we were looking for, then just throw
a school exception.
But maybe now we don't want to do that.
Maybe now we could consider, perhaps just returning a null.
Let's let's see here.
So if we go back to the method that's calling this one, which I just went back one to the extract person
method here.
So we're saying go get the value of the child underscore ID in this particular case.
So if there is no column called child underscore I.D. In fact, we've already coded this in such a way
as to say that if what we get back from this call is null, then just return an empty object.
So I think, yeah, let's jump back over here again.
So maybe now we don't want to be throwing an exception, and instead we just want to return a null.
So let's see what that would look like.
So I'm going to select all of this and instead just say return null.
And I think that's it.
Let's run this again and see what we get.
All right.
Still fails.
So we were expecting one to be greater than or equal to 10.
OK, so now I think we are hitting the original issue that I was thinking we were going to have to address,
which is if we come back up here to our extract entity from results, that method here.
All right.
So here's what I think is happening now.
We're in this situation right here, where for each person in our results set the current row or the
current person that we're iterating over is not going to match essentially the previous person that
we encountered in our results set.
So let's see here.
Since the database is closed at the moment, I'm not going into school into scroll sequel, but I think
I can show this even here.
So let's pretend like these are all parents now, OK?
And so our first row is Jerry Smith.
So let's say we're iterating through all of this code for the very first time and we land on our first
row of Jerry Smith.
So we extract Terry Smith and we set Jerry Smith on current parent.
Then we get down here to final parent, which if this is the very first time we're going through all
of this code, final parent will be null.
So then we decide to set the Jerry Smith on final parent.
So now current parent and final parent are both pointing to Jerry Smith object.
OK, and then we get down here.
Final Parent does not equal current parent.
That won't be true, so this isn't going to do anything.
And then we jump down here and now we're trying to extract the child, which in this particular case,
we're not querying or joining to the child data.
And so there won't be any child.
And we do whatever we want to do with the addresses, those don't really matter.
OK.
And so all of the rest of this works out, OK.
And then we do an arrest start next.
This call here is going to take us now to the next row, which in this case would be Frank Jones.
So again, let's pretend like all of these are just parents, OK?
And then we're going to jump back up here to the top of this loop.
So now we're going to extract Frank Jones and then we get here.
Final parent is not null now.
Final parent equals Jerry Smith, OK, because that's what we said on it from the first row final parent
currently equals Jerry Smith, so we're going to skip over all of this and now we get here.
If Final Parent, which is Jerry Smith, does not equal current parent, which is Frank Jones, then
that would be true.
And so now we will be on line 109.
However, we're not.
Actually doing anything here yet, but I think we're going to need to.
OK, so currently nothing's going to happen here.
So then we're going to do all of these things and then jump down here and call start next again, which
is going to advance our row counter to Ann Jackson.
OK.
And then we're going to jump back up here.
So.
So as you can see, what's going to happen is we're going to iterate all over all of these parents,
essentially.
And then when we're done iterating over all of them that came back in our results set, whether it's
five, 10 or 100, we will then return one parent, final parent.
So what will have happened to all of these other parents?
They will effectively have just been ignored, and that's not quite what we want.
So what should be happening is we're going to extract Jerry Smith starting back over again.
We're going to extract Jerry Smith right here and final parent would be null pretending, pretending
like we're starting over from scratch.
Final parent would be no.
So we will set final parent to Jerry Smith.
Then we will advance to the next row, which would be Frank Jones.
We come back up here again.
We extract Frank Jones.
We skip over this bit.
Then we determine that Frank Jones is not equal to Jerry Smith right here and now.
What should happen, I think, is that I think we should break out of this loop right here and just
return what we already had and final parent, which would have been Jerry Smith.
If we just do that, then the rest of our credit repository framework will work properly.
So when we get here, I think all we need to do is two things we need to back up our road cursor back
to this first row and then we need to break out of this loop, which will allow us to return Jerry Smith
right here because Jerry Smith is what will have been in the final parent variable.
So we will return Jerry Smith and then we return back up to.
In this case, back up to the find all method, which would then advance here down to the next row of
Frank Jones.
So in other words, when we're doing a fine final, each time we proceed to a new row and that's a different
person from the previous parent that we had retrieved.
We want to break out of our extract person method and back up one and then allow this find all method
to do all of that advancing.
OK.
I hope that's clear.
I know this is kind of hard to explain well, but that's why I'm taking the time to kind of really step
through the steps.
OK, walk through the steps.
OK?
So let me go ahead and implement it, and then maybe I will walk through those steps with you one more
time.
OK, so again, we're going to jump into the people repo here.
So I think all we need to do is two steps here.
We need to back up our road counter by one.
So we were back up to row one again, OK, in this case.
So to do that, we can do an R-Sport.
Previous that just makes the row cursor back up one and then we can break out of this do while loop,
and then that's going to simply return back the previous row that we had already extracted.
OK.
So let's try running this first and make sure that I'm right.
And then if this works, I'm going to explain it one more time.
Oh, and it still doesn't work.
Let's see here the result set is not scrollable and cannot be reset.
You may need to use connection that create statement.
Result, set type, scroll insensitive are OK.
All right.
So it's this telling me that we're not allowed to scroll around and go back to the previous role with
the current way that we created our statement, but it's giving us a hint of how we should do that.
OK, so let's jump back up to the find all method here.
And here's where we are creating our prepared statement.
So let's see what other options we've got here.
If we can do what it pretty much is suggesting.
So currently we are using this version of the prepare statement method where we are only passing in
our SQL string, but there are some other versions of this as well.
And maybe we can look at this second one here where it takes the sequel string and then it takes a result
set type and a result set concurrency.
So let's see what our options are here.
So I'm going to put my cursor right there and then put a comma and then say, Result set dot.
And now I can choose a result set type.
Now, hold on a second here because my screen is scrolling off, I'm kind of scrolling off the screen
a little bit.
In fact, here at what I'll do to make sure that you can see this is I'm going to hit enter.
All right.
And now results set in.
Let me also get some space here.
Results that dot type scroll insensitive.
So that's what it's suggested we do.
All right.
Let's see our options here again.
And let me also reformat this a little bit better.
All right.
So I'm doing a command p.
And so it is expecting one more parameter to be passed in here, which is the results.
Add concurrency.
So let me go ahead and specify that as well.
Comma result set.
Dot concur.
Read only now I will explain these options in just a moment here, but first, let's just see if we
can get this to work.
Oh, there we go.
There we go.
OK.
All right.
Now let me explain what we just did.
So if we jump back into our extract entity from results set method here in the people repository, let
me make some room.
OK, so let me just explain this whole entire flow.
One more time.
So let us pretend that this is our data set.
Let's pretend like there's no such thing as children for right now and that everybody is a parent.
OK, and we're doing a fine doll, and we've got four records in the people table.
OK.
So when we first start off, we're going to get back a results set and it's going to be kind of on row
zero.
OK?
Which in this case, Rosie Roe has no data.
OK.
It's not a it's not a regular row.
So we would be here.
And so the first thing that's going to happen is we're going to jump into this while loop and call results
said that next.
So that's going to cause our row cursor to go to row one, OK, which is Jerry Smith.
And then we're going to call extract entity from results set.
So.
So let's jump into that in the people repository.
All right.
So here we are.
And now we're going to jump into this do while loop.
And so the first thing we're going to do is extract a person from the current row, which is this Jerry
Smith Rowe.
We're going to extract a person from this row using these prefixes as aliases, and that's why we had
to go update our sequel for the Find All method.
This is all for find.
All right.
We had to update the SQL for the Find All method to now add in these prefixes for the parent column.
OK, so this call is going to result in a person object being created, which will represent Jerry Smith.
OK, and then that person will be stored in this local variable current parent.
Then we will come here and test if the final parent is null, which it will be null because this is
the first time that we're going through any of this code.
In this case, it will be null.
So then we will set the current parent to the final parent, which means that we will have two variables
current parent and final parent that are both pointing to the same object, which represents Jerry Smith.
OK, so two variables pointing to Jerry Smith object.
Then we will come down to this next f block here and test if the final parent is not equal to the current
parent.
Which is to say, if Jerry Smith is not equal to Jerry Smith, which won't be true, then blah blah
blah.
So that won't be true.
So none of this is going to occur, so that'll get skipped over.
And then if there was a child, we would extract that, but there won't be in this particular query.
So that's just going to return an empty optional.
And then if we were trying to grab addresses, then we would grab the addresses, but we're not.
So we don't really care about any of this now.
OK, so now we're going to call R-Sport next, which is going to cause our row cursor to go down to
the next row row to which is Frank Jones.
OK, and then we're going to jump back up here for another iteration through our loop.
So now we're on row two and we're going to extract a person again, which is now Frank Jones.
And then we're going to come down here and test if final parent is null, final parent is not null now.
Final Parent is equal to Jerry Smith because that's what we set it to in the first iteration.
OK?
It's set to Jerry Smith, so we're going to skip over this line because this is not true anymore.
Final parent is not null, so this will not be executed.
And then we'll jump here if Final Parent, which is Jerry Smith, is not equal to parent parent, which
is Frank Jones.
So if this is true, which it is, then we will execute these two lines.
Now, the first thing we're going to try to do is to roll back our row cursor to the previous row.
That is to say, we want JD B.C. to jump back to this previous row here and then we will break out of
this loop, OK, which means we will land down here on Line 121, so we'll just skip over all of this
and land on line 121 and return whatever was in final parent.
So what is in final parent at this point?
Jerry Smith is in final parent at this point, and then we will return Jerry Smith.
So then let's jump back up.
To our find all method up here, and so then we will add Jerry Smith to this collection of entities,
then we will loop back again and then call R-Sport next.
So we're now in the credit repository again, OK, just to be clear and call R-Sport next, which is
going to now take us back to the second row, which is Frank Jones.
And then we're going to call extract entity from results set again.
And so Final Parent is going to get reset to null and then we're going to extract persons.
So now we're going to extract Frank Jones and set Frank Jones on current parent.
And then we're going to test is final parent null?
Yes, final parent is null because we just re-entered this method.
OK, so these are local variables and local variables get wiped out every time you exit a method and
then come back in.
OK.
And so Final Parent is indeed null.
And so we will now set Frank Jones on Final Parents.
So now we've got final parent and current parent, both pointing to Frank Jones object in memory.
OK, then we will test if Frank Jones does not equal Frank Jones, which makes no sense.
So that would be false.
We will skip over these two lines and now we will come down here and we can ignore all of this for our
purposes.
None of that matters, and we can ignore all of this as well.
And now we will advance to the next row, which would be this row here and Jackson.
And so then we loop back up here again and then we extract and Jackson and then we test.
If Final Parent is the final parent is not null, final parent now is set to Frank Jones, so we will
skip over that line and then we will test.
If Frank Jones is not equal to Ann Jackson, which is true.
Frank Jones is not equal to Ann Jackson then.
Back up one row, which takes us to this row here, Frank Jones, and then break out of this loop,
which takes us down to line 121 and then return Frank Jones because that's what's in final parent.
And so then we will end up.
Returning Frank Jones object and adding it to this collection of entities.
OK, so now this collection of entities contains Gerry Smith and Frank Jones, and we are back on the
Frank Jones row right now.
OK, then we will loop back up here again and advance one row.
So now we go from Frank Jones back down to and Jackson, and then we will jump in here again.
So do you get what's happening here?
OK, I hope I don't need to go through that, go through that again, but I'm stepping.
I'm trying to be very, very methodical here and step through each and every line of code so that you
can get the pattern of what's happening here, OK?
So we just, you know, slowly and methodically step through each of these lines, OK, and that's what's
enabling this to work.
So now the last thing I want to explain is this little bit that we had to do up here to make everything
work.
So if I jump back into this extract entity from results set method.
So right here when we call results said that previous, which is causing our row cursor to back up one
and go back to the previous row, that's just so that we can get things set up again in the way that
our credit repository find all method is expecting things to be.
It's not expecting that we're skipping over rows behind its back.
OK, so we are advancing to the next road just so that we can see just so that we can see essentially,
is this a child or is this another parent now in this particular case, in the example that I just ran
through?
Everybody as a parent?
OK?
But if this had been a child, then we would have had Gerry Smith duplicated again.
OK.
That's what would have happened.
And then we would have just extracted that child and then added the child to the parent.
OK.
But in this case, none of these people are children of the previous person.
Right?
They're all parents, if you want to think of it in that way.
And so we're kind of taking a peek at the next row to see, is this is this Gerry Smith again with another
child or is this a brand new person?
And basically, we're saying, if it's a brand new person, a brand new parent, then we're done taking
a peek.
Let's reset everything back to where it should be, which, which would mean we have to back up to the
previous row.
OK.
However, we aren't allowed to back up to the previous row by default with J.D. DC.
If you want to be able to back up and and and change what row you're on besides calling R-St next.
Then you have to tell your connection that you want a statement or, in this case, a prepared statement
that is scrollable.
OK, so that's what we're doing here.
We're saying that we want the ability to kind of move around backward and forward, OK?
And this insensitive setting here is basically just saying we do not want to have to pay attention to
changes that occur in the underlying data set.
That really doesn't even apply for us right now, but that could come into play in a database that allows
multiple applications to connect to it simultaneously.
So let's say that you've got two copies of this program, both connecting to the database at the same
time from different computers, and the first computer gets a results set from this find all method,
and then the other computer is adding additional rows into the same table.
This insensitive setting here is simply saying once the first computer gets its results set while we're
in this find all method, don't worry about additional rows getting added or updated or changed and
things like that.
OK.
So it's kind of like taking a snapshot of the way that the records looked at the moment that we entered
this find all method on that first computer.
OK?
So don't don't get any fancier than that.
And then this concur read only is simply saying that we're not going to try to make changes to our results.
Set data, OK?
We're not going to programmatically get a result set and then try to change values in it.
We're only reading, OK, we're not going to update or change or write any data here.
And the reason these settings are important to note is because it allows the database to optimize for
whatever it is that we're trying to do.
Because if we wanted a results set that we could update, that's a little harder for the database to
allow us to do.
OK.
So by choosing in this case, read only and insensitive, we're basically saying, Hey, database,
we don't need you to do the fanciest, most complicated things here.
Just let us move our cursor backward and forward on a static data set.
OK, which that would be this data set here in this example.
All right.
OK, so hopefully now you understand what this is doing and why we're doing it in this way and how we
came up with it.
OK.
So if you didn't catch everything I said here, though, hey, just go back, play it back even slower.
Watch through my step by step, line by line explanation for what everything is doing.
OK?
And I think you probably will be able to get it then.
And if you're still having problems, you can always shoot me a message in this course and I will try
my best to to address it for you.
OK.
But with that, I'm going to go ahead and end this lesson and I will see you in the next one.